---
layout: documentation.njk
title: "TCW 30: TEI Council: Workload and Guidelines for Resignation"
tags: 'Working Papers'
---
<div id="tei"><h1>TEI Council: Workload and Guidelines for Resignation</h1><tei-tei data-xmlns="http://www.tei-c.org/ns/1.0" data-origname="TEI"> <tei-teiheader data-origname="teiHeader"> <tei-filedesc data-origname="fileDesc"> <tei-titlestmt data-origname="titleStmt"> <tei-title data-origname="title">TEI Council: Workload and Guidelines for Resignation</tei-title> <tei-author data-origname="author">Syd Bauman</tei-author> <tei-author data-origname="author">Elisa Beshero-Bondar</tei-author> <tei-author data-origname="author">Jessica Lu</tei-author> </tei-titlestmt> <tei-editionstmt data-origname="editionStmt"> <tei-edition data-origname="edition"> <tei-date data-origname="date">2020-06-29</tei-date> </tei-edition> </tei-editionstmt> <tei-publicationstmt data-origname="publicationStmt"> <tei-p data-origname="p">freely available</tei-p> </tei-publicationstmt> <tei-sourcedesc data-origname="sourceDesc"> <tei-p data-origname="p">Born-digital document</tei-p> </tei-sourcedesc> </tei-filedesc> </tei-teiheader> <tei-text data-origname="text"> <tei-body data-origname="body"> <tei-div data-origname="div"> <tei-head data-origname="head">TEI Council: Workload and Guidelines for Resignation</tei-head> <tei-div data-origname="div"> <tei-head data-origname="head">Workload</tei-head> <tei-p data-origname="p"> Once elected, your voluntary membership on the TEI Council is both an opportunity and a responsibility. The TEI and its community rely upon the Council’s consistent attention and engagement. While the Council shares and distributes duties among its members, each individual Council member can expect to devote, at a minimum: <tei-list data-origname="list"> <tei-item data-origname="item">Several scheduled and self-paced hours, monthly, to “orientation” and mentorship during the first year of Council service;</tei-item> <tei-item data-origname="item">3 scheduled hours, monthly, to virtual conferencing for the duration of your elected term;</tei-item> <tei-item data-origname="item">4+ self-paced hours, monthly, to addressing tickets and other Council tasks (e.g. server maintenance, listserv correspondence, special projects, etc.) after your orientation and for the duration of your elected term;</tei-item> <tei-item data-origname="item">10 days, annually, to two face-to-face Council meetings and associated travel (expenses reimbursed).</tei-item> </tei-list> </tei-p> <tei-p data-origname="p">Furthermore, Councilmembers are encouraged to submit original work for peer review and presentation at the annual TEI Conference and Members’ meeting.</tei-p> </tei-div> <tei-div data-origname="div"> <tei-head data-origname="head">Resignation</tei-head> <tei-p data-origname="p"> Occasionally, a Council member may be unable to meet the demands of their work on the Council. <tei-lb data-origname="lb" data-empty=""></tei-lb>While temporary absences (due to illness, financial or personal hardship, etc.), are certainly acceptable, Council members should communicate their needs for accommodations. Council members who must disengage from Council work for an extended period are asked to vacate their elected position in a timely manner. </tei-p> <tei-p data-origname="p"> Resignation should be strongly considered if: <tei-list data-origname="list"> <tei-item data-origname="item">A Council member is unable to attend all-Council virtual conferences for three consecutive months, or is unable to attend at least half of the all-Council virtual conferences over the course of a six-month period.</tei-item> <tei-item data-origname="item">A Council member is unable to assume responsibility for any regular Council tasks (including, but not limited to, minutes review, ticket triage, and ticket review) for three consecutive months.</tei-item> <tei-item data-origname="item">A Council member is unable to attend both the annual face-to-face all-Council meeting and the annual TEI Conference and Members’ Meeting in a given year.</tei-item> </tei-list> </tei-p> <tei-div data-origname="div"> <tei-head data-origname="head">Process</tei-head> <tei-p data-origname="p">When Council members are considering resigning from their elected position, we ask that they: <tei-list data-origname="list"> <tei-item data-origname="item">Discuss the situation with their mentor or another Council member first <tei-list data-origname="list"> <tei-item data-origname="item">a) to discover whether accommodations other than their departure might be made that would mutually benefit both the member and the Council; and</tei-item> <tei-item data-origname="item">b) to ensure that Council can prepare for their absence and reassign their work.</tei-item> </tei-list> </tei-item> <tei-item data-origname="item">Submit an official message of resignation from their elected position via email to the Council chair.</tei-item> </tei-list> </tei-p> <tei-p data-origname="p">A Council member’s resignation will activate a provision of the <tei-ref data-origname="ref" data-origatts="target" target="https://tei-c.org/about/bylaws/">TEI-Consortium Bylaws</tei-ref> and may initiate the process for a special election or appointment to fill the vacated position. </tei-p> </tei-div> </tei-div> </tei-div> </tei-body> </tei-text> </tei-tei></div>