---
layout: page.njk
title: "TCM15: TEI Council Conference Call"
creator: Syd Bauman
date: 2005-01-31
---
# TCM15: TEI Council Conference Call





Times are UTC unless otherwise noted.


Started 13:04 with all Council members except MD (who had
 posted he would be unavailable), and LR who arrived at
 14:05\.





Previous Minutes
 
 The following are listed in the same order as in the previous minutes
 themselves.


* \[?...?]
* discussion deferred to end of conference call
* JF reports that she posted (to tei\-council on
 2004\-11\-29 17:15\), and there was a brief flurry of
 discussion. Council now recommends that Julia actually
 create the call following up \& expanding on recent
 TEI\-L postings.
 
 JF
 produce call, run it by Lou (for XSLT expertise)
 and post it
 
 2005\-02\-15
* PW has not yet contacted Paul Tremblay; PW to look after this
 item
* SB to initiate a test prodding system for Council to
 consider SF feature request artifacts. The basic idea is
 that SB will periodically post a specific topic for
 discussion, and immediately council members will review
 and discuss it. Hopefully within a brief period some
 closure (perhaps even a decision!) will be obtained, and
 an individual council member will volunteer to shepherd the
 issue through whatever progress is then required. If no
 one volunteers, council members may be assigned
 alphabetically. 
 SB
 Post first feature request artifact prod to
 council
 
 2005\-02\-07




 SH
 
 JW reports that SB \& TEI in Libraries SIG had asked him
 \& NS to review SH chapter. They have done so, keeping
 and elaborating the sections on meta\-data mapping for
 incorporation into HD, and removing the independent header
 bits, as the concept of an independent header is being
 dropped from the Guidelines. JW has catalogers in Indiana
 reviewing the meta\-data stuff, and it will then go via NS to
 catalogers at UNC. At this point the draft will be opened to
 bigger group 
 probably TEI\-LIB
 initially. JW thinks discussion of MARC records and
 Dublin Core will be done by end of Feb. The editors applaud
 the work done so far, and hope it can continue. There is
 need for more material on interoperability, mentioning for
 example the use of name spaces, related standards like DC
 and METS. The suggestion that a generic
 metadata element is needed (see for example [Tim Finney's proposal](https://sourceforge.net/tracker/index.php?func=detail&aid=958388&group_id=106328&atid=644065)) needs to be addressed â€”
 perhaps this chapter should have a section explaining why
 such an element is not a good idea, as it seems to be a
 FAQ.




 WG reports
 
 
 PB
 
 JF reports PB chair has resigned for personal reasons.
 Seeks advice of Council on identifying a new chair. EV is
 too busy. Two names suggested were Murray McGilvray and
 Daniel O'Donnell: JF to contact them, proposing a very
 precise brief.




 SO
 
 SB reports the WG as a whole has been moribund, but
 chair DD spent time in 2004\-12 helping get their working
 papers incorporated into SA. Still a lot of work to be
 done, but it's there.




 FS
 
 The DIS is going for final ballot very soon. It was
 pointed out that, because the FS WG did not switch from
 ID/IDREF to 
 xml:id/URI, we are now
 out of synchronization with the proposed standard. It is not clear
 what ISO TC37/SC4 wants to do with FSDs; so far they have been
 unable to find an editor to take it on.





 P5
 
 P5 first alpha draft is out. After some discussion about
 the need to get people to use, test, and report back about
 P5, it was decided that we'd make some effort to provide
 people with easier installation methods.
 
 all
 send their preferred P5 editing environment to LB
  SS suggests that there should be
 conference\-related half\-day workshops about how to set up and
 use P5\.


CW suggests that a SF package should have same file
 hierarchy as Debian. 
 SR
 build tarballs that have hierarchy built in (from
 /usr/share/xml/ level on down) 





 P5 Editorial Committee
 
 There was some agreement that a management or oversight
 subcommittee of the Council was needed.
 
 all
 read edw81
 \& send comments to the council list
 
all
 send views on editorial committee (including whether
 or not you volunteer) to LB
 





 META
 
 Council thanks SR and META, WG decommissioned.




 Meeting
 
 After miraculously brief discussion, we decided to hold a
 face\-to\-face meeting at AFNOR in Paris (thanks, LR!) on Thu
 04\-28 afternoon, Fri 04\-29 all day, and also allowing for
 overflow into Sat 04\-30 if needed.





Call ended at approximately 14:40\.





