---
title: "TEI Technical Council Teleconference, 2024-12-10"
date: 2024-12-10
---
# TEI Technical Council Teleconference, 2024-12-10

10:00â€“11:30 PDT | 13:00â€“14:30 EDT | 17:00â€“18:30 UTC | 19:00â€“20:30 CEST

### Present:

* Syd Bauman (SB)  
* Helena BermÃºdez Sabel (HBS)   
* Elisa Beshero-Bondar (EBB, Chair)  
* Elli Bleeker (EB)  
* Patricia O'Connor (TOC)  
* Gustavo Riva (GR)	  
* Torsten Roeder (TR)  
* Martina Scholger (MS)  
* Joey Takeda (JT)   
* Magdalena Turska (MT)  
* Raff Viglianti (RV)

### Invited Guests (new Council members starting terms January 2025): 

* Ulrike Henny-Krahmer (UHK)  
* Martin Holmes (MH)

### Apologies/Not Present: 

* Sabine Seifert (SS)

## Introductions and calendar scheduling
  * Welcome to new Council members!
  * Happy birthday, Grace Hopper (yesterday), and Ada Byron Lovelace (today)\! ðŸŽ‚   
  * Decision re next Council meetings in 2025: Second Tuesday of each month: 10:30 PDT | 13:30 EDT | 17:30 UTC | 19:30 CST  
## Council & Stylesheets Chair Election ðŸª‘  
  * No spontaneous nominations â€” EBB to continue Ã— 1 year  
  * Anyone interested in chairing in 2026 to contact EBB to learn about the duties.  
  * Stylesheets Chair â€” HBS happy to continue (if anyone is interested in chairing in the future, contact HBS).

## Next Release (4.9.0 & 7.58.0) timing   
  * Late January / early February 2025 
  * Issues to close for next release.  
  * Release technician volunteers: RV, TR, TOC  
    * RV asks we conclude by end of January  
    * Documentation for release techs: https[://teic.github.io/Documentation/TCW/tcw22.html](http://teic.github.io/Documentation/TCW/tcw22.html)  
    * Refridge: Mon 2025-01-20â€“Tue 2025-01-21  
      * Note: Only mild changes to dev, e.g. prose edits. No changes to the schema or Stylesheet code during the refrigeration period.  
    * Freeze: Wed 2025-01-22  
      * Note: No more commits to dev  
    * Release day: Fri 2025-01-24  
  * MH points out there are 75 issues marked "Needs Discussion".   
  * MS created a new release milestone for the next release 4.10.0.  
  * **Action on Council:** Need to go through tickets to decide which get moved to the next release and update the milestone label to 4.10.0.  
  * Monitoring a release: Any Council member can join the release tech Zoom and watch the Slack chat.  
      
## Mentoring  
  * MS and HBS to mentor UHK and TR  
  * SB happy to continue mentoring EB, TOC happy to co-mentor.  
      
## [TEI Lite 2 Working Group Charge](/activities/workgroups/lite2-charge)   
  * **Action on Council:** Formalise the charge in the December meeting  
  * Discussion:   
    * Are the aims of the working group really larger than the title of the working group suggests?  
    * Should TEI Lite be fully conformant to TEI-all?  
    * Council endorses this working group forming and continuing investigating and reporting back on progress via slack channels  
    * **Action on MS:** to add the Working Group to the TEI website. [Done.]
    * Group would make its repo(s) inside the TEI-C and shall confer with Council on how best to implement this.  
        
## **TR:** [New SIG for Computable Text and Media](/activities/SIG/computable) 
  * Intention to provide better guidance for encoding computable text and media such as social media posts, e-mail, e-literature, punching cards (as discussed at BA conference), floppy disks etc.  
  * Would impact some modules and some other chapters of the TEI Guidelines, such as the Representation of Primary Sources.  
  * Discussion:  
    * SIG is needed for tackling unique problems of digitally born texts: RV notes that in helping people with editions on e-literature, hierarchical ordering of hypertext and born-digital documents is different from what we're accustomed to in TEI.  
    * Council endorses SIG forming now and to actively recruit participants.
  * [following meeting]: TR contacted TEI-L and EBB posted new SIG description to TEI website. [Done.]




