---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI-C Board Minutes: December 2025"
date: 2025-12-12
author: Constance Crompton
---
## TEI Board Meeting: 12 December 2025

Attending: Diane Jakacki, James Cummings, Elisa Beshero-Bondar, Constance Crompton, Dimitra Grigoriou, Gimena del Rio Riande, Hugh Cayless
Apologies: Magdalena Turska 


### Agenda Items

* Approval of December Minutes 
     *   Constance Crompton moves, James Cummings seconds
  
*   Conference Updates
       * TEI2026 Update 
           * James, Diane, and Connie will meet with Emily Murphy who has expressed interest in being PC chair


*   Membership Drive
    * James Cummings will canvas feedback from the board and council on a membership structure survey
    * Will send the survey to the membership on the 19th, with a reminder the new year to fill it in. 


*   Council Report 
    * Spring face-to-face may be in Würzburg
    * There is a proposal for a TEI and AI Tools SIG - Board consensus that this is a good idea
    * Considering revising the technical process behind the guideline release.
    * We can task SIGs with P6-related tasks, the Board and Council can work on grant funding (P6 likely to roll out in decade)


* Finances
    * The Jagiellonian University will join as an institutional member, U Virginia and Hamburg Science Academy have left 

 
 * TEI Projects Page 
    *  May ask for volunteers to curate our list of older projects; could add a banner to the current list to say when it was last updated
    * It is important to keep the archived list -- an important part of the TEI’s history, even if some projects are no longer active or available online 
    * Currently  project submit by google form, would be better to switch to TEI Issues. (We can open a ticket to figure out the best way to make this work.)
 
* Elections
    * Secretary and Board Chair in January 
    * Council Chair is up for election too

*  Infrastructure
    * Council may lend a hand in upgrading the HumaNum servers if permitted
    * HumaNum is moving towards one VM per project, so we would need to consolidate
    * The release process, TEI Garage, and other scripting services needs a full server, so we cannot wholesalemove to Github Pages
    * It is good to keep other organizations engaged with us, and to diversity the baskets our eggs are in

* AOB: 
    *  Meeting with DARIAH went well. While the TEI is not necessarily a good fit as a DARIAH SIG or a country, there may be ways to benefit each other, including offering future iterations of the TEI Technical Contributor program.
    * Ontologies …
        * Diane is working with folks who may be game to take on the Ontologies SIG. There is broad interest in the community 
        * The AI SIG propposal group will be interested in this work (e.g. for responsible RAG augmentation)
        * Diane has been doing outreach to CIDOC-CRM 
 