---
layout: page.njk
title: "TEI Board Meeting 31 2008: Board Meeting Addendum: Strategic Travel"
---
# TEI Board Meeting 31 2008: Board Meeting Addendum: Strategic Travel





 Proposal to the TEI Board to Create a New Funding Model for the TEI MM / 
 Susan Schreibman, December 2008
 
 
  The overwhelming success of the TEI MM, both at University of Maryland (2007\), and
 at Kings College London (2008\) in which the community moved from a one and a half
 day MM to a three day conference, coupled with a growing community of practice and
 inflationary pressures, makes this an opportune time for the Board to reconsider the
 funding model that supports what is arguably the TEI’s most important public event.


 The current funding model is as follows:
 
 


* The Board provides the local host with $5,000 in support
* The Programme Committee seeks outside support to augment this amount
* The local host contributes an amount raised from local funds
* Any number of delegates from an institution from institutional members may attend
 free of charge
* Individual subscribers attend free of charge


For the KCL meeting, unfortunately, the local hosts have not had time to prepare a
 post\-meeting budget, so the numbers below are at best an estimate. I do not have the
 total amount received from fundraising, nor any other income generated by a conference
 fee. Although these numbers are thus quite rough, but are nevertheless illustrative.
 At the KCL meeting, there were 150 attendees. Total costs ran to approximately £7,560;
 per head costs were c £50 per head. The $5,000 the TEI used to subvent the MM paid
 for 60 individuals to attend. The local hosts feel they may have lost a small amount
 on the MM.


At the UM meeting there were 125 attendees. Total expenses were $9,300\. Per head
 costs amounted to $75\. The $5,000 subvention from the TEI thus paid for 66 attendees.
 Additional income received (both from fundraising and local sponsorship) amounted
 to $3,600\. We thus lost $704 on the meeting. However, $2,475 was collected in individual
 subscription fees to attend the meeting, which was turned over to the TEI. Since I
 made a mistake and charged people $25 too much, that extra money covered the deficit.
 


In spite of the fact that the numbers we have to work with are not ideal, there is
 enough of a pattern to suggest several proposals for different funding models that
 the Board may wish to adopt in part or in full:
 
 


* The $5,000 the TEI contributes to the MM should increase each year at the rate of
 inflation;
* The individual subscriber fee should be decoupled from the conference fee. At $50,
 for 2007, for example, the TEI would have lost money on individual subscribers who
 attended the MM;
* Individual subscribers should receive a discount for attending the MM. The discount
 should be set at a rate so that it is attractive so that they might also consider
 joining the Consortium;
* Institutional subscribers should be limited to two or three attendees as part of the
 institutional subscription; any attendees over 2/3 should be charged. This fee should
 be heavily discounted over the regular conference rate (this might be calculated at
 the marginal cost per attendee);
* There should be a regular conference rate and a student rate
* If the cost to the local host for the free attendees from institutional subscribers
 exceeds the per person costs as represented by the $5,000 subvention coupled with
 funds raised via sponsorship, the local host and the TEI Board will agree on a marginal
 per person additional subvention (i.e. per person costs, for example for coffee
 breaks, conference bags, gifts, marginal reception costs, etc.). This rate should
 be substantially less than the cost per person that includes fixed costs.


As this proposal covers more than a simple request for additional funds, I suggest
 we consider the proposals above before deciding on an amount (if we decide on an amount
 at all) that we will offer to the local hosts for increased support. 





