---
title: "TEI-C Elections 2026"
date: 2026-07-03
tags: news
---
# TEI-C Elections 2026

* [Introduction](#intro)
* [A Note on Voting](#note)
* [Candidate Statements: TEI Technical Council](#council)
  * [Syd Bauman](#SB)
  * [Roman Bleier](#RB)
  * [Selina Galka](#SG)
  * [Dario Kampkaspar](#DK)
  * [Chiara Martignano](#CM)
  * [Elsa Pereira] (#EP)
  * [Ariane Pinche](#AP)
  * [Torsten Roeder](#TR-C)
  * [Joey Takeda](#JT)
  * [Raffaele Viglianti](#RV)  
  * [Yifan Wang](#YW)

* [Candidate Statements: TEI Board](#board)
  * [Gimena del Rio Riande](#GR)
  * [Torsten Roeder](#TR-B)
  * [Christine Ruotolo](#CR)

## Introduction {#intro}

In 2026, TEI Members will hold an election to fill 4 open positions on the TEI Technical Council (3-year term). There are 2 open positions on the TEI Board of Directors (3-year term).

The following people have been nominated and have agreed to stand as candidates for election to the TEI Technical Council and the TEI Board. They have all supplied a statement covering two aspects:

1. a candidate statement in which they discuss their reasons for wishing to serve on the Board or Technical Council and what their particular goals would be.
2. a biographical description focusing on their education, training, research, etc., relevant to the TEI.

## A Note on Voting {#note}

Voting will be conducted via the OpaVote website, which uses the open-source balloting software OpenSTV for tabulation. OpenSTV is a widely used open-source Single Transferable Vote program.
TEI Member voters, identified by email address, will receive a URL at which to cast their ballots. Upon closing of the election, all voters who cast a vote will be sent an email with a link to the results of the election, from which it is also possible to download the actual final ballots for verification. Individual members may vote in the TEI Technical Council elections. The nominated representative of institutions with membership may vote for both the TEI Board and TEI Technical Council.

Voting will open on July 4, 2026 at 12:01am.

Voting closes on August 4, 2025 at 11:59pm EST.

## Candidate Statements: TEI Technical Council {#council}


# TEI-C Technical Council

### Syd Bauman {#SB}
_Affiliation:_ 

**Statement of purpose:**
Syd came to the TEI through an interest in markup and markup languages. He became interested in SGML just prior to its publication in 1986, but did not start engaging with a real markup language until late 1990. At that time he was already working at the Brown University Women Writers Project, where his first major task was to convert WWP legacy data to be in line with the newly published TEI P1. He still works at the WWP as the Senior XML Programmer/Analyst, and ever since that first challenge he’s been thinking of ways to improve the TEI. From 2001 to 2007 Syd served the TEI as the North American Editor, and since 2013 has been an active member of the TEI Technical Council. He has been very active in the TEI community as a frequent presenter on TEI topics at conferences; by consulting closely with nearly ½ dozen TEI projects, and providing occasional assistance to another dozen or so; as a member of several SIGs and editor of the Library SIG’s Best Practices for TEI in Libraries; as the chair of the Council’s ATOP task force; as a major contributor to the CMC chapter; and of course, through teaching numerous TEI workshops and seminars. Syd has an AB from Brown University in political science, and has worked as a systems programmer and a freelance computer typesetter.


### Roman Bleier {#RB}
_Affiliation:_ University of Graz, Department of Digital Humanities
**Statement of purpose:**
I am honored to stand as a candidate for the TEI Technical Council. Throughout my career in digital scholarly editing, the TEI Guidelines have been foundational to my work in modeling historical texts and data. I am looking forward to closer collaboration and contributing to future developments in the community. If elected my goal is to ensure the Guidelines remain practically applicable for research projects and sustainable editorial workflows.
In particular, I am eager to collaborate closely with the Text & Graphics Special Interest Group (SIG). My current project editing Peter of Poitiers’ Compendium historiae—a complex medieval work with an integrated genealogy and graphical structures—has highlighted the distinct challenges of encoding highly visual manuscripts. We include external images via IIIF. Annotated zones are stored in TEI documents, but the interoperability between IIIF and TEI could be better. I believe that the integration of image data, not only IIIF but also ATR data is an important topic. As part of the Technical Council, I can play a vital role in refining how the TEI Guidelines handle these multimodal realities.
Having used the TEI for many years, I am looking forward to the opportunity to significantly contribute to the Council and to serve the wider TEI community.
**Biography:**
I am currently a Principal Investigator for the digital scholarly editing project Peter of Poitiers’ Compendium historiae. I studied History and Religious Studies at the University of Graz, before completing my PhD at Trinity College, Dublin, with a thesis on a digital edition of Saint Patrick’s writings. I joined the Digital Humanities department at the University of Graz in May 2016, where I have worked on several projects, including the digital edition of the Imperial Diet of Regensburg of 1576. My research in recent years has focused on digital scholarly editing, digital history, and research data management. I am actively involved in international digital humanities networks, including the Institute for Documentology and Scholarly Editing (IDE) and the Digital Medievalist, for which I served as a board member between 2017 and 2021.


### Selina Galka {#SG}
_Affiliation:_ Karl-Franzens-Universität Graz
**Statement of purpose:**
I am honoured to accept the nomination for the TEI Technical Council. As a Research Associate in the Department of Digital Humanities at the University of Graz, I have been working with the TEI on a daily basis since 2017, both as an encoder and as a data modeller across a wide range of digital scholarly editing projects. Through this work, I have gained extensive practical experience in applying the TEI Guidelines to very different materials — from early modern manuscripts and ego-documents to twentieth-century diaries and performance records — and in confronting the modelling challenges that arise when the Guidelines meet the reality of historical sources. My research interest in data modelling in the humanities are directly relevant to questions the TEI community is facing: how to keep the Guidelines robust and interoperable while responding to new methods of text creation, enrichment, and analysis.

As a member of the Technical Council, I would like to contribute this hands-on editorial and modelling experience to the maintenance and further development of the Guidelines and the TEI infrastructure. I would also be glad to bring the perspective of an early-career researcher and of the German-speaking DH community to the Council's work.

I would be delighted to serve the TEI community in this capacity.
**Biography:**
Selina Galka is a Research Associate in the Department of Digital Humanities at the University of Graz, Austria, where she is also pursuing a PhD in Digital Humanities with a dissertation on the digital edition of the memoirs of Countess Schwerin and studies and analysis related to it. She holds two master's degrees from the University of Graz: an MA in Digital Humanities and a joint MA in German Philology of the Middle Ages and Early Modern Period, as well as bachelor's degrees in German Studies and Musicology.

Since 2019, she has worked on a range of digital edition and digital humanities projects, including the Digital Edition of the Memoirs of Countess Schwerin, Giuseppe Tartini and his "School of Nations“ (ongoing), the Digital Edition of the Theatre Chronicles of Philipp Gumpenhuber, the Hyperdiplomatic Transcription Platform, and the digital edition of Karl Wiesinger's diaries, among others. Her research focuses on digital scholarly editing, data modelling, semantic web and the use of large language models in the humanities.


### Dario Kampkaspar {#DK}
_Affiliation:_ University and State Library, Darmstadt, Germany
**Statement of purpose:**
I am excited and honoured to be nominated to stand for the TEI Council and thus contribute to the future of the TEI. For me, this means that while I have certain key interests, I’ll concentrate on what is most needed within the council: the TEI and its bodies are a group effort!
Over the past years and decades, the complexity of the TEI has increased continuously; there can be quite a learning curve, especially as there are often multiple ways of doing things. This is not a downside of the TEI but its strength as it enables its use in many different areas. But it might be helpful to more explicitly outline suggestions how phenomena could be addressed for certain use cases. Hence, one focus for me would be to work towards these kinds of suggestions (which would be a combination of a customization and an expanded documentation) so as to make the first steps in the TEI world easier and improve interoperability.
By now, the model to describe a text’s meta data or the entities (in the broadest sense) related to it, has become very powerful. I would like to work towards a clear distinction of meta data and the actual text (be it transcribed or born digital). This will strengthen the value of the TEI in describing not only bibliographic meta data but also entities.
Connected to both these efforts is my hope to be able to have a fresh look at many elements’ content models – or, more general, the class system – as there have been multiple changes over the past years that sometimes had unexpected consequences. This will be a long task – one that can be seen as a step on the road towards “P6” – but also help reduce complexity and thus make learning (and teaching) the TEI a lot easier.
I hope that, if elected, I can contribute to the open, fair and inclusive community the TEI is.
**Biography**
Currently, I am the head of the Centre for Digital Editions at the University and State Library in Darmstadt, Germany. The projects I’m involved in span from in-depth scholarly editions to large corpora with only basic annotation (240 years of newspapers) and mass conversion of different formats to TEI. Also, I am actively contributing to the development of the framework for digital editions used in the library.
My key interests are closely related to this background – the need to keep a large number of projects up and running while making sure that the markup is as consistent as possible.
I hold a degree in (medieval and early modern) history and English linguistics and literature.


### Chiara Martignano {#CM}
_Affiliation:_ Università di Padova

**Statement of purpose:**
I am excited and honoured to be nominated to stand for the TEI Council and thus contribute to the future of the TEI. For me, this means that while I have certain key interests, I’ll concentrate on what is most needed within the council: the TEI and its bodies are a group effort!
Over the past years and decades, the complexity of the TEI has increased continuously; there can be quite a learning curve, especially as there are often multiple ways of doing things. This is not a downside of the TEI but its strength as it enables its use in many different areas. But it might be helpful to more explicitly outline suggestions how phenomena could be addressed for certain use cases. Hence, one focus for me would be to work towards these kinds of suggestions (which would be a combination of a customization and an expanded documentation) so as to make the first steps in the TEI world easier and improve interoperability.
By now, the model to describe a text’s meta data or the entities (in the broadest sense) related to it, has become very powerful. I would like to work towards a clear distinction of meta data and the actual text (be it transcribed or born digital). This will strengthen the value of the TEI in describing not only bibliographic meta data but also entities.
Connected to both these efforts is my hope to be able to have a fresh look at many elements’ content models – or, more general, the class system – as there have been multiple changes over the past years that sometimes had unexpected consequences. This will be a long task – one that can be seen as a step on the road towards “P6” – but also help reduce complexity and thus make learning (and teaching) the TEI a lot easier.
I hope that, if elected, I can contribute to the open, fair and inclusive community the TEI is.
If elected, I intend to focus my efforts on two main goals: promoting the TEI as the standard for digital scholarly editing, and fostering cross-disciplinary education. In many traditional humanistic environments, TEI is still sometimes viewed with skepticism or perceived as a limiting, overly complex format. I intend to demonstrate the standard’s flexibility within the Council, building bridges with skeptical scholarly communities and promoting TEI as the foundational choice for sustainable and interoperable digital editions. Having organized and taught multiple workshops and seminars on digital philology, I am deeply committed to pedagogical outreach. I believe it is vital to promote the teaching of TEI and its underlying technologies across all humanities disciplines.
To make the standard truly accessible to students, early-career researchers, and cultural institutions, I plan to contribute actively to maintaining the Guidelines, specifically dedicating myself to translating and localising TEI documentation into Italian. As a matter of fact, I am standing for election to the TEI Technical Council also to foster stronger links between the vibrant Italian Digital Humanities community and the TEI Consortium. Over the last decade, Italy has produced numerous projects in digital philology and text encoding. Despite this rich research tradition, the Italian community has historically lacked representation within the Technical Council. If elected, I aim to provide a voice for this active community, facilitating an international dialogue and encouraging closer collaboration between Southern European initiatives and the TEI.
**Biography**
I am a Research Fellow at the University of Padua (Italy), specialized in digital scholarly editing, textual data modelling, and web development. I hold a PhD in Philology and Textual Criticism from the University of Siena and a Master’s Degree in Digital Humanities from the University of Pisa. My extensive experience with XML/TEI standards began during my academic training and has been central to various digital edition projects in Italy. In particular, for over five years, I worked within the ERC European Ars Nova Project at the University of Florence, where I designed and implemented XML/TEI and XML/MEI encoding models for medieval poetry and music. I have also actively contributed to the development and enhancement of EVT (Edition Visualization Technology), an open-source, TEI-based viewing tool, focusing on the visualization of complex critical apparatuses and textual variations. Currently, I am part of the CoMByN project, where I am developing a digital synoptic edition. I am also an active coordinator within the VIDIT research initiative (“best practices” subgroup), focused on creating recommendations for visualization software tools for textual variation. Throughout my career, I have consistently promoted TEI standards through international conference presentations, peer-reviewed publications, and advanced training workshops.

### Elsa Pereira {#EP}
_Affiliation:_ University of Porto, Faculty of Arts and Humanities, CITCEM
**Statement of purpose**
Coming from the Humanities rather than having a technical background, I am honored to have been nominated to stand for election to the TEI Technical Council. As a textual scholar with over 20 years of experience, I have been learning and applying the TEI-XML standard to digital scholarly editions of literary works for some time. Between 2018 and 2025, I have had the chance to design a syllabus for a course on digital scholarly editing, teaching the TEI-XML encoding standard to MA and PhD students in textual criticism. 
As a Portuguese native speaker, I take a particular interest in promoting and making the TEI guidelines available in languages other than English. If elected, I would like to help promote the guidelines among the community of 264 million Portuguese speakers and to support the members of the Council currently engaged with the TEI’s educational resources, collecting and translating teaching materials to support students in different stages of their learning path.
### Biography
I am a textual scholar with a background in literary studies. After completing a Lic. (2003), a MA (2007), and a PhD (2013) in Romance Literature and Culture, I was a postdoctoral fellow (2014-2019) and a contracted researcher in textual scholarship (2019-2025). Since September 2025, I have been working at the University of Porto on a research project funded by the Portuguese Foundation for Science and Technology. I am also a board member of the European Society for Textual Scholarship. Full CV: https://www.cienciavitae.pt/portal/en/3F16-87B6-5794 


### Ariane Pinche {#AP}
_Affiliation:_ CNRS
**Statement of purpose**
First of all, I am deeply honored to be considered for a position on the TEI Technical Council. I am a medieval philologist at the CNRS, with a longstanding commitment to the digital representation of medieval texts. My engagement with TEI began during my early training on the Hyperdonat project, where I was an early adopter of ODD, using it both as a schema language and as a medium for documenting data modelling decisions. My doctoral research took the form of a critical digital edition of Li Seint Confessor by Wauchier de Denain, which involved encoding the physical structure of the manuscript BnF fr. 412, collating the manuscript tradition and enriching the text with linguistic annotations. I also integrated the CTS protocol to ensure compatibility with the CapiTainS ecosystem, with the aim of producing a rigorously documented and interoperable scholarly edition.
From 2018 to 2021, I taught digital editing : XML-TEI, ODD, and XSLT at the École nationale des chartes, in the Master « Technologies numériques appliquées à l'histoire ». I remain deeply committed to knowledge transmission. I currently teach digital editing and automatic text recognition to early-career researchers and else, notably at the EnExDi Spring University and in various workshops.
A central concern of my current research is the question of stratified editing for medieval texts: how TEI can support editorial workflows where multiple interpretive strata : from diplomatic transcription to normalised text, linguistic annotation, and apparatus criticus, coexist within a single document model, each remaining independently queryable while forming a coherent whole. Working with large hagiographic compilations transmitted across multiple manuscripts, I am currently developing a framework for organising the multiple textual realisations attested across a manuscript tradition bringing together edited text, individual witnesses, and the relationships between them thanks to the access to large witness corpora that automatic text recognition (ATR) now enables. This perspective also informs my work within the ATR, where I am exploring how the output of automatic handwriting recognition can be integrated into richer editorial structures without loss of provenance or interpretive transparency.
If elected to the Technical Council, I would contribute to ongoing discussions on text encoding and the evolution of the TEI standard with this dual perspective in mind: that of a philologist working with complex manuscript traditions, and that of a researcher engaged in the responsible integration of automated tools into humanistic workflows. I would work to strengthen connections with the French-speaking community and the networks I am actively involved in, including Biblissima+ (research infrastructure devoted to the history of the transmission of ancient texts, from antiquity to the early modern period) and Humanistica (The French-Speaking Digital Humanities Association).
**Biography**
I am a chargée de recherche at the CNRS, working in medieval studies and digital humanities at CIHAM (UMR 5648) in Lyon. My primary area of research is the vernacular hagiographic tradition, with a particular focus on the mechanisms of compilation in Old French legendiers and on the circulation and reception of texts across manuscript communities.
To explore these large and complex corpora, I have been involved in the development of automatic handwriting recognition models for medieval manuscripts, notably within the international CATMuS project (Consistent Approaches to Transcribing ManuScripts). This work has led me to reflect on a question I consider central to the future of digital philology: how the TEI standard can support stratified editorial workflows, from raw automatic transcription to enriched, stratified textual representations that accommodate multiple levels of interpretation, from the material to the linguistic to the stemmatic. My aim is to develop encoding practices that are at once philologically rigorous and computationally tractable.

### Torsten Roeder  {#TR-C}
_Affiliation:_ Universität Würzburg
**Statement of purpose:**
I am seeking re-election to the TEI Technical Council for a second term. Serving on the Council over the past three years has been both rewarding and instructive, and I would welcome the opportunity to continue contributing to the technical development and future direction of the TEI.
My work focuses on scholarly editing, digital heritage, and interoperable encoding frameworks. During my first term, I became increasingly interested in the foundational questions that will shape TEI P6 and future generations of the Guidelines. I would like to continue contributing to these discussions and help ensure that the TEI remains both technically robust and much more easily adaptable to old and new forms of cultural heritage.
A particular focus of my work is the relationship between traditional textual scholarship and born-digital materials. As founder and convenor of the Computable Text and Media SIG, I am interested in exploring how TEI can provide conceptual and technical bridges between classical textual heritage and computationally generated or executable media.
I also bring expertise in multimodal encoding environments through my work in the TEI Music SIG, where I have been involved in questions of representing non-textual and graphical notation and developing structures that facilitate interlinking across different media types.
Beyond the Consortium, I actively promote TEI through workshops and presentations in both academic and non-academic contexts, including citizen-science initiatives and events such as the Chaos Communication Congress. I currently serve as the ISO liaison for the TEI Consortium and remain engaged with questions of sustainability, interoperability, and long-term preservation in particular through my engagement within the German National Research Data Infrastructure. If re-elected, I will continue to contribute actively to the Technical Council while fostering connections between TEI, related standards, and new communities of practice.
**Biography:**
Torsten Roeder works at the Centre for Philology and Digitality at the University of Würzburg, Germany. He is part of a research group that creates and curates digital scholarly edition projects, and he manages the Retro Computing Lab, a place for researching and teaching with born-digital heritage.


### Joey Takeda {#JT}
_Affiliation:_ Simon Fraser University
**Statement of purpose:**
I am thrilled to stand for re-election for TEI Technical Council. Since joining Council in January 2023, I have only become more convinced of the TEI's importance and the responsibility of being on Council—not only in the necessary work of maintaining the TEI standard, but ensuring that the TEI can continue to evolve and adapt to meet the needs of the community of users that rely on, think with, teach, and improve the TEI. 
Throughout my first term on Council, I have contributed to the ongoing technical work of Council through responding to issues to improve and refine P5, working through complex and challenging standardization challenges presented by the ODD system, and improving processing in the TEI Stylesheets. I chair the GIS Working Group, where we are developing new mechanisms for encoding including geographic data and standards in TEI. I have also worked alongside Raff Viglianti to spearhead the monthly TEI Community Calls, which has been an excellent venue for both discussing the current work of the TEI technical council and engaging with the TEI Community. What draws me to this work is much the same as what draws me to Council: the creative, theoretically complex, and thoughtful ways that researchers—across all skill levels and institutional locations—take up, use, modify, and challenge the TEI.
This is precisely why I hope to serve another term. There are significant developments on the horizon for the TEI, and I want to continue addressing them in ways that recognize the wealth of expertise contained within the long history of TEI and in the community of users that support it. I would like to think carefully and critically about the TEI standard and associated infrastructure, taking stock of how well it serves the community, identifying what's missing, and formulating robust, sustainable infrastructures to ensure its long-term use and importance. Alongside the ongoing work of maintaining, documenting, and modernizing the TEI's codebase, I would like to support the specification of ODD in the hopes of developing more mechanisms for sharing and promoting digital editions and their customizations as first-class members in the scholarly ecosystem.
**Biography:**
I am a Digital Humanities Developer, specializing in digital textual editing and TEI, at Simon Fraser University Library's Digital Humanities Innovation Lab where my work bridges technical development, digital scholarship support, and information management. SFU Library specializes in open scholarship and the digital humanities and, as such, has been supportive of the work that TEI Technical Council requires. Before coming to SFU, I received my BA in English at the University of Victoria (working on projects such as The Map of Early Modern London, Landscapes of Injustice, and The Endings Project) and my MA in English at the University of British Columbia (where I worked on The Winnifred Eaton Archive for which I continue to serve as the Technical Editor). I am also chairing the TEI 2026 conference (supported by a Social Sciences and Humanities Research Council Connections Grant), co-hosted between the University of British Columbia and SFU. 

### Raffaele Viglianti {#RV}
University of Maryland
**Statement of purpose:**
My work on the Technical Council has focused on lowering barriers for TEI users: developing and maintaining Roma, a tool for editing TEI ODDs and customizations, and taking a global, multi-lingual perspective to TEI infrastructure and tooling. I care deeply about TEI's accessibility, and I have developed tools for editing and publishing TEI with low-cost,low-infrastructure requirements, such as the VSCode/Codium extension Scholarly XML (winner of the 2024 Rahtz Prize for TEI Ingenuity) and a family of tools around CETEIcean, a library for rendering TEI in the browser. 
This same commitment shapes how I contribute to Council discussions, where I help advance both the TEI Guidelines and the tools Council maintains. I take a practical stance and work toward common ground. As TEI weighs the challenges and opportunities posed by AI, and embarks on an initial foray into P6 development, I am eager to keep building on my expertise in Council culture and infrastructure. This is a crucial moment in the development of a future-proof TEI, and I would be honored to continue contributing to the Council’s work for another term. 
**Biography**
Dr. Raffaele (Raff) Viglianti is a Senior Research Software Developer at the Maryland Institute for Technology in the Humanities, University of Maryland. His research is grounded in digital humanities and textual scholarship, where “text” includes musical notation. He researches new and efficient practices to model and publish textual sources as innovative and sustainable digital scholarly resources. Dr. Viglianti is currently an elected member of the Text Encoding Initiative technical council (until Dec 2026) and the Technical Editor of the Scholarly Editing journal.


###Yifan Wang {#YW}
International Institute for Digital Humanities
**Statement of purpose:**
Throughout my academic life, I have been always fascinated by “notation”, which includes writing, language, data, format, or their interactions. Then, working for years on ancient Buddhist texts, I become more and more interested in transmission and transformation of human knowledge across times, languages, and technologies, which is not unlike the recent movement from paper to digital data. For a TEI user who has learned linguistics, philology, translation, and programming—and perhaps most importantly, who was an XML kid in the middle school—I am honoured to have a chance to serve on and learn further from TEI, a digital and global infrastructure for the current and future humanities research.
Leveraging my knowledge, I would commit myself to expanding usability and applicability of TEI, especially on better support of scripts, languages, and disciplines from East Asian, Indic, or other regional academic spheres in the Guidelines. I would find the way through discussion and coordination with the Initiative’s working groups, SIGs, as well as other experts and communities, local or technical, to knowing and fulfilling each own basic requirements in TEI. The Guidelines are already a vast accumulation of the common assets by past and current great contributors. I am ready to help, as a member familiar with the standard drafting process, enrich them to be even more universal by incorporating, and harmonizing with, previously unaccounted fields.
**Biography**
Currently, a Research Fellow at the International Institute for Digital Humanities. Recently received PhD in library and information sciences from the University of Tokyo with a thesis on building medieval Chinese character corpus, while my BA and MA degrees are in linguistics. My research interests are around written languages, informatics of scripts, and writing system studies. Involved for ten years in the SAT project (SAT Daizōkyō Text Database Committee), mainly working on digitalization of the Taishō Tripiṭaka (a compilation of Chinese Buddhist scriptures) and research of medieval character dictionaries. An active member in standardization processes: ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 2 (as IRG expert) for ISO/IEC 10646 (Universal coded character set) and the Unicode Standard, ISO/TC 37 (as delegate and WG expert) for ISO 639 (ISO language code), ISO 21646, and related standards. Also a freelance translator and a L10N/i18n engineer mainly in the field of video games.
Academic activities: “Design of Document Repository Management System Based on Graph Database” (2018; awarded IPSJ SIG Computers and the Humanities Student Award), “What Are We Calling ‘Latin Script’? Name and Reality in the Grammatological Terminology” (2019), “慧琳撰『一切経音義』の符号化をめぐって [On the encoding of Huilin’s Yiqiejing Yinyi]” (2019), “Xu Yiqiejing Yinyi and Issues on TEI Markup of Chinese Literature” (2021; awarded Jinmoncom 2021 Student Award), “『續一切経音義』を通じた外字と割注の課題 [Problems on gaiji and warichū as seen in Xu Yiqiejing Yinyi]” (2022; in: ISBN 978-4-90-965884-5)
Standardization activities: “On Encoding Policy of Gongche Notations and Upcoming Para-ideographs” (2019), “Proposal to Encode 20 Additional Kanbun Marks” (2021), “Proposed Updates and Expansions of Unihan Numeric Fields” (2022), “SAT Submission for the IRG Working Set 2024” (2024)



# TEI-C Board

### Gimena del Rio Riande {#GR}
CONICET, Argentina
**Statement of purpose:**
I have been part of the TEI community for more than fifteen years. During this time, as a scholar and later as member of the TEI-C Board of Directors, I have advanced various initiatives for the Spanish-speaking TEI community, mainly in Latin America. If elected to the TEI-C Board of Directors for this term, I would like to focus on continuing to engage the Spanish-speaking community and expanding these initiatives in my region through a “minimal and sustainable TEI infrastructures” approach, making TEI accessible regardless of available resources. Many Latin American scholars struggle to publish and maintain their digital editions or TEI projects. Moreover, many institutions lack the infrastructure needed for complex digital projects. I am interested in producing best-practice guides for low-cost TEI publication, showcasing lightweight TEI workflows using GitHub Pages, CETEIcean, Jekyll, etc., and static-site generators, as well as automatic TEI encoding with lightweight LLMs. The main goal and deliverable for the Board would be the creation of a "TEI Minimal Computing Toolkit" in Spanish (and English). Since the TEI 2024 conference, Clayton McCarl and I have run a TEI in Spanish mailing list, which we could use to amplify these initiatives, in addition to presentations at the TEI annual Conference and other events related to Digital Humanities and Digital Scholarly Editing, as well as through my work as part of the Board of Directors.
**Biography:**
I am a literary scholar who works as Associate Professor at Universidad del Salvador (USAL) and Senior Researcher at the National Council for Research (CONICET) in Argentina, where I coordinate the activities of a Digital Humanities lab (HD LAB). I am interested in community building and advocacy for multilingual Digital Humanities. For more than a decade, I have aimed at training new generations of scholars through certificates, workshops, courses, and open educational initiatives focused on XML-TEI and digital scholarly editing. I have also promoted open-source and minimal computing approaches to increase access to TEI-based methodologies in Latin America. I also organized TEI 2024 in Buenos Aires—the first TEI Conference ever held in a Spanish-speaking country—with the intention to contribute to strengthening the global TEI community.

### Torsten Roeder {#TR-B}
Universität Würzburg
**Statement of purpose**
I am seeking election to the TEI Board because I would like to contribute not only to the technical development of the TEI, but also to its long-term strategic direction, outreach, and sustainability.
My work focuses on scholarly editing, digital heritage, and interoperable encoding frameworks. Over the past years, I have become increasingly interested in how the TEI can continue to evolve while remaining a stable and sustainable foundation for both established and emerging forms of cultural heritage. A particular focus of my work is building connections across communities. As founder and convenor of the Computable Text and Media SIG, I explore conceptual bridges between traditional textual scholarship and born-digital materials. Through my work in the TEI Music SIG, I have also been involved in questions of multimodal encoding and interoperability across different forms of notation and media.
Beyond the Consortium, I actively promote TEI through workshops and presentations in both academic and non-academic contexts, including citizen-science initiatives and events such as the Chaos Communication Congress. I currently serve as the ISO liaison for the TEI Consortium and remain engaged with questions of sustainability, interoperability, and long-term preservation through my work within the German National Research Data Infrastructure. My work has also enabled me to build an extensive international and intercultural network across academic, cultural heritage, and technical communities, which I would be eager to contribute to the Board's activities. If elected to the Board, I hope to strengthen collaboration across communities, foster strategic partnerships, and help ensure that the TEI continues to grow as an open, sustainable, and internationally relevant standard.
**Biography**
Torsten Roeder works at the Centre for Philology and Digitality at the University of Würzburg, Germany. He is part of a research group that creates and curates digital scholarly edition projects, and he manages the Retro Computing Lab, a place for researching and teaching with born-digital heritage.


## Christine Ruotolo {#CR}
University of Virginia Library
**Statement of purpose**
I am grateful to be nominated to stand for the TEI Board and would appreciate the opportunity to help support and strengthen the Consortium. I have worked with TEI for over three decades as an encoder, instructor, and administrator, on institutional and individual projects.. At the start of my career, large research libraries were key stakeholders in the TEI -- creating publicly available collections, developing library-friendly standardized schemas, and providing crucial support for the Consortium through dues payments and service roles. While financial and staffing pressures have prompted some institutions to pivot away from support for TEI collection building and instruction, I believe that re-engaging these communities will be important for the long-term sustainability of the TEI Consortium, and for developing the next generation of TEI practitioners.  My specific interest is in leveraging the under-utilized legacy collections of TEI-encoded texts held by many institutions, including my own, and looking for ways to adapt and repurpose them as classroom-friendly OER or online learning objects; the Literature in Context open literary anthology, a project I have worked on for the past 8 years, is an example of this work. I am also the convener of the newly formed AI Tools for TEI SIG, which will I hope will establish best practices and benchmarks for the use of AI tools/LLMs in creating, enhancing, and analyzing TEI text.

**Biography**
Christine Ruotolo is the Director of Research in the Arts & Humanities at the University of Virginia Library, where she leads a team of subject specialists in developing services to support new modes of research and teaching.   Prior to her current role, she served as Associate Director of the University of Virginia Library’s Electronic Text Center, where she was responsible for developing open online collections in TEI. She served on the TEI Board of Directors as Secretary/Webmaster from 2005-2010, and oversaw the redesign and migration of the TEI website during that period. She also chaired the TEI-C SGML to XML Migration Task Force. She has taught numerous workshops on TEI, XML, XSLT, and related topics for the American Library Association, the Association of Research Libraries, the Amigos library consortium, and Rare Book School.
